---
title: Controller
---

# Controller

Controller responsible for directing and coordinating the flow of data and operations within an application. The controller are defined in `controllers` directory. You can define the payload request and response in a controller.

Here is the default Raiden's controller.

::: code-group

```go [internal/controllers/hello.go]
package controllers

import (
    "github.com/sev-2/raiden"
)

type HelloWorldRequest struct {
}

type HelloWorldResponse struct {
    Message string `json:"message"`
}

type HelloWorldController struct {
    raiden.ControllerBase
    Payload *HelloWorldRequest
    Result  HelloWorldResponse
}

func (c *HelloWorldController) Get(ctx raiden.Context) error {
    c.Result.Message = "Welcome to raiden"
    return ctx.SendJson(c.Result)
}
```

:::

## Routing

All routings are automatically generated by controllers based on their location within the `controllers` directory. The folder structure directly dictates the URL path.

### Static Routes

For example, a controller located at `controllers/status.go` will automatically be accessible at the `/status` endpoint.

### Dynamic Routes

Folders prefixed with an underscore (`_`) denote dynamic route segments. The name after the underscore becomes the parameter name, which can be accessed within the controller using `ctx.GetParam("parameterName")`.

For example, a controller located at `controllers/rest/v1/users/_id/custom.go` will be accessible at `/rest/v1/users/{id}`. Inside the controller, you can retrieve the `id` like this:

```go
id := ctx.GetParam("id").(string)
```




### HTTP Verb

You can use `Get`, `Post`, `Put`, `Patch`, `Delete`, `Options`, or `Head` on function name
to use specific HTTP verb request.

For example, if you want to use `Post` and `Delete` request.

```go
func (c *HelloWorldController) Post(ctx raiden.Context) raiden.Presenter { // [!code highlight]
    c.Result.Message = "Data has been inserted."
    return ctx.SendJson(c.Result)
}

func (c *HelloWorldController) Delete(ctx raiden.Context) raiden.Presenter { // [!code highlight]
    c.Result.Message = "Data has been deleted."
    return ctx.SendJson(c.Result)
}
```

## Type

There are several options for the controller `type`: `custom`, `rest`, `rpc`. These types influence the controller's behavior and generated functionalities, while the route itself is determined by the folder structure.

For example, a `custom` type controller:

```go
type HelloWorldController struct {
    raiden.ControllerBase
    Payload *HelloWorldRequest
    Result  HelloWorldResponse
}
```

::: info
The `rpc` type only available for `Post` verb.
:::
